[1.0.0-alpha2] application configuration (#318)
oam-dev/spec: 7.application_configuration.md

## Runtime and Application Configuration

The [Workload](3.workload.md) chapter of the specification defines how schematics are constructed. The resulting schematics may then be used to instantiate a component on a OAM-compliant runtime.

Component can be deployed into numerous different runtimes. But at runtime, there is a one-to-one correspondence between an _instance of an configuration_ and an _application configuration_.

> Conceptually speaking, an application configuration is managed as part of the _application operator_ role. It has a bundle of componnet instances:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conceptually speaking, an application configuration is managed as part of the _application operator_ role. It has a number of component instances:
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Default Value | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|---------------|-------------|
| `apiVersion` | `string` | Y | | The apiVersion of the Scope. |
| `kind` | `string` | Y | | The kind of the Scope. |
| `name` | `string` | Y | | The name of the Scope. |

> The name field is required and must be 63 characters or less, beginning and ending with an alphanumeric character ([a-z0-9A-Z]) with dashes (-), underscores (_), dots (.), and alphanumerics between.

### Trait

The trait section defines an instance of a trait.

| Attribute | Type | Required | Default Value | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|---------------|-------------|
| `trait` | [`TraitData`](#traitdata) | N | | Supply all information needed by a trait definition. |

### TraitData

The TraitData section contains the instantiation of the [schema](3.traits.md#DefinitionRef) referenced by the corresponding traitDefinition. We can use the schema to validated this section.

It's __RECOMMENDED__ that `apiVersion` and `kind` are contained like below:

``` yaml
- trait:
    apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1alpha2
    kind: ManualScalerTrait

>     [Other Data]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    spec:
      replica: 2
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Default Value | Description |

> |-----------|------|----------|---------------|-------------|

Reviewer 2: Is it necessary to remove scope?  It seems that it will be too verbose in not too complicated application like below without it.
```yaml
componentA
    scope :
         - Kind : K1
            Name : n1
        -  Kind : K1
            Name : n2
componentB
    scope :
         - Kind : K1
            Name : n1
        -  Kind : K2
            Name : n2
componentC
    scope :
        - Kind : K1
            Name : n2
        -  Kind : K2
            Name : n2

```

Author: I'll put it back as you said

Reviewer 3: In alpha1, the scopes object here (as a sibling of components) defined a scope _instance_. I don't understand why we'd have a list of scope _references_ here. Where are the scope instances created and why would I reference a list of them at the root of the application configuration?

Reviewer 4: I also assumed we'd remove this `scopes` field for the reason @vturecek mentioned; because it was previously used to _instantiate_ scopes, not associate them with an application. I can see the rationale in repurposing the field as an array of
scopes in which all of an application's workloads will exist, though. If we do this it should be an array of references to scopes, not embedded instances of scopes.

Author: Maybe there's some misunderstandings here. The scopes section is used for index ScopeRefs, so we don't need to repeatedly write scopeRef under component section. It's just for convenient.

Reviewer: Just clarifying here.

This PR removes the **instantiation** of scope instances in AppConfig.

@ryanzhang-oss is suggesting the **scope refs** are too verbose.

@vturecek is asking why there are **scope refs** here? Answer: because a component needs to belong a scope, and it does so by adding a scope ref.

@negz is assuming we are removing this scopes field. And yes we do.

| `components` | [`[]Component`](#component) | N | | Component instance definitions. |

### Component
This section defines the instances of components to create with this application configuration.

| Attribute | Type | Required | Default Value | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|---------------|-------------|

> | `componentName` | `string` | Y | | The name of the component to create an instance of. |

Reviewer 2: what does "componentName" mean here? It's not for reference anymore, right?

Author: I think it's still a reference to a component

| `parameterValues` | [`[]ParameterValue`](#parameterValue) | N | | Overrides of parameters that are exposed by the application scope type defined in `type`. |
| `traits` | [`[]Trait`](#trait) | N | | Specifies the traits to attach to this component instance. |

> | `scopes` | [`[]Scope`](#scope) | N | | Specifies the application scopes that the component should be deployed into. |

Reviewer 2: why not call it application scopes anymore?

Author: 1. scopes is more short and also can be understand.
2. scope is a group of components. it's more like componentScope not applicationScope.

Reviewer: Agree. Let's call it "scopes".

### ScopeRef

The scopeRef section will index a scope instance by `apiVersion`, `kind` and `name`.

| Attribute | Type | Required | Default Value | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|---------------|-------------|
| `apiVersion` | `string` | Y | | The apiVersion of the Scope. |
| `kind` | `string` | Y | | The kind of the Scope. |
| `name` | `string` | Y | | The name of the Scope. |

> The name field is required and must be 63 characters or less, beginning and ending with an alphanumeric character ([a-z0-9A-Z]) with dashes (-), underscores (_), dots (.), and alphanumerics between.

### Component
This section defines the instances of components to create with this application configuration.

| Attribute | Type | Required | Default Value | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|---------------|-------------|
| `componentName` | `string` | Y | | The name of the component to create an instance of. |
| `parameterValues` | [`[]ParameterValue`](#parameterValue) | N | | Overrides of parameters that are exposed by the application scope type defined in `type`. |
| `traits` | [`[]Trait`](#trait) | N | | Specifies the traits to attach to this component instance. |

> | `scopes` | [`[]string`](#scope) | N | | Specifies the scopes' name defined in [spec.scopes](#scope) that the component should be deployed into. |

Reviewer 3: The data type is right (list of strings) but the name of the field should be `scopeRefs` if we're following Kubernetes conventions (https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/96203/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#naming-conventions)

    version: v1.0.0
    description: "Description of this deployment"

> spec:

Reviewer 2: please add the []scope part of the spec

  components:
    - componentName: my-web-app-component
      parameterValues:
        - name: PARAMETER_NAME
          value: SUPPLIED_VALUE
        - name: ANOTHER_PARAMETER
          value: "AnotherValue"
      traits:
        - name: manualscaler.core.oam.dev
          version: v1
          properties:
            replicaCount: 3
      scopes:
        - scopeRef:
            apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1alpha1
            kind: Network

>             name: example-vpc-network

Reviewer 3: If this is a reference to an instance of a scope, why do I need to specify version and kind here? Shouldn't the name of the instance be sufficient?

I think the `Component` section above has it (mostly) right in defining this as just a list of strings, and this example is wrong.

Reviewer 4: We need the `apiVersion` and kind because scopes may be of an arbitrary version and kind (e.g. `NetworkScope` , `HealthScope`, etc). We can't uniquely identify the referenced scope by name alone.
